---
layout: post
title:  "A Peleton of Flamingos"
date:   2024-07-01 06:00:00 +1000
categories: update
---

## A Peloton of Flamingos (in the dark) 

The weather was threatening, it had been raining for days and many thought it was going to continue for some time - Nick-O was overheard discussing the Ark Building business with someone from the Navy. As the crowd gathered around the bench in the pre-dawn glow (from the public bathroom..) there was general banter aimed at those not there and those who were likely to be late (Farmer). Punctuating the cheap shots at those missing were gripes about how cold it was, to be fair, the winter in Manly has been compared with the bitterness reserved for the conditions of North Sea off the coast of Scotland. Apparently an oil rig worker made a guest appearance once and said the two winters were comparable - he even said Manly might be worse... Someone said it was a mate of Softees but who knows, it could have even just been Softee. Once Flamingo (the fittest on earth - FOE) spoke everyone fell silent and you could have cut the tension in the air with a small chainsaw, "Lads, take your tops off, we're going to be warm this morning". Nervous glances left and right with smiling clearly used as a coping mechanism for the unsettling self doubt we all carry when the FOE makes a call like that... he even led the group up to the car-park and gave everyone a chance to get ready. FOE meant business. 

The founding fathers were given a tennis ball each, still not sure why but the FOE works in dark and mysterious ways; we were led up the hill through the mean streets of Shelly Beach to the stairs leading to the castle. There was some feeble attempt to get folks into teams; again, the FOE works in mysterious ways. Then it started. The stages in the alps were underway. In the dark, on the wet and slippery stairs a cracking pace was set (think zimmer frames on wet sand). Up one set, down one set, up two sets, down two sets. A pattern was emerging said Faz. Joelo, the kelpie with ADD, was heard to ask when was it going to end. Actually, there were calls of cheating from his team at one point. Maybe he just chose to *trim* a few sets of stairs from the first range of Alps for the morning. It was so dark we may never know what really happened. 

Surprisingly, everyone escaped injury free to finish the first stage and gather again as a **Flamboyance** of flamingos between the rabbit holes in the early shadow of the castle. The next 10 mins has to go down as an ill considered idea if ever there was one (this is really something in this context). "Run out to the first tree with the tennis ball and throw it back to the next in the relay". Seriously!! What palm tree? What direction? What rabbit hole? What team? WTF?? As a founding father, Tex took a few seconds to place a quick call to the WHS rep. Can you believe it was cleared to be *as safe as houses, crack on*!. The madness persisted. F*&k knows who won this or what the competition was. 

As the group trotted in a South Westerly direction towards North Head the venerable snake formation was invoked and the peloton settled into a new normal for the flat stage of the morning. Again, the banter kicked off, tennis balls were thrown around, cyclists were dodged and apologies made to morning walkers. Spirits were high until FOE called the group to the right, "Lads, just pull over to the stoop sign on the right over there and we will have a chat". The nervous grins mentioned earlier were swapped for active dodging - my calf's a bit sore, the kids have come home with the flu - I think I've picked it up, I've just got a 'flat'. The only bloke not nervous was Owie. An unverified source has told me Owie was heard saying:

>I own this hill, best eva!! 

Well, if the fun didn't fall right out of the whole peloton idea. There was some rot about founding fathers setting the pace and breakaways getting gathered up as a group. Let's be honest. It quickly became a survival session. Personally my pride was left at the second speed hump - I sent an email to the local council to see if they have it in the lost and found. Still nothing back yet but I am forever hopeful someone finds it and returns it. Clearly some of the group found the *sticking together* concept too hard to grip. On the third and final(maybe) turn back down the hill one of the FF shot passed everyone like a startled **bin bird** (rather than a flamingo) snacking on a discarded kebab on the corso from the night before. Farmer asked if we should call an ambulance. Unconfirmed sources were heard to say lets just turn around and head back - be worth the laugh. Needless to say the FOE is to honourable for this and we all headed down for the longest climb of the morning. On this matter there is 'ranger camera footage' that has the bin bird turning back up the hill well before the bottom. It was dark and the footage grainy but initial impressions are the kebab eating vertebrate didn't cover the distance. Some folks from NSA have been asked to come and have a look at it for the group - standby for a revelation.. 

Notwithstanding the controversy on the bottom turn point the main peloton rolled down to the car park and dutifully set stride back up what has to be one of the longest, soul destroying, most frustrating hills on the Northern Beaches. With everyone on the team playing their part the race was on. Protection was offered for the FF by the *domestiques* who lead out and did the grinding. Then the sprinters were sent to the front in an effort to gather up the flight of foot bin bird. Alas, the group never caught the walking Ibis before the stop sign emerged like a saviour in the breaking daylight. Then it happened. FOE told everyone to head back down. If the air wasn't charged with emotion after the previous ascent it was now (for those that could still breath). Apparently Faz took out a small knife to cut holes in the tops of his shoes to get more oxygen into his body. The rest of us were jealous that he had the knife to do it... There were aspersions cast about mental toughness while others looked to the 0700 gods or divine intervention from coffee messiah. It was rough and nothing could save the group except each other. Stay together and get through it - the only way the peloton gets through the alps is to stay together. 

On return to Shelly Beach everyone was thankful the clock had struck 0703 - it was over! The alps would claim others another day. 

At the coffee shop after the effort a representative from WADA pulled a few folks aside for testing. No one has seen Softee since. It's expected the ban will be both expensive and extensive. His claims of raw eggs and banana skins before breakfast have clearly been debunked - he will no doubt sack his chemist and the controversy of sample tampering with rage for months to come. L Armstrong will be able to offer perspectives on a few fronts in this instance. 

Someone sent me a link yesterday, a Gumtree Add:

- Tour De France Bike barely used. Specialist downhill racer, struggles on the inclines but not known for climbing generally. It's got a semi-naked colour scheme. Occasional glitch where it just falls over, only seen after the rare climb. Call S Oftee on 1800 CANW EREST. 

It's not clear if this is a repossession from WADA or is part of a clearing house removing evidence. Either way it seems like a good price for something that's hardly used... 

Commitment - fitness - mateship