---
layout: post
title:  "Derby Day Texas Style"
date:   2024-07-08 17:59:00 +1000
categories: update
---

## Derby Day in Little Manly Point Park

Not even the spectre of wet weather could diminish the excitement of the finely dressed gentry of Manly as they gathered in the park. The bookies spun the totes wildly as the field warmed up on the track between Shelly and Little Manly. The hotly anticipated Derby Day had come around again. The notable scratchings couldn't dull the excitement of the quarterly event!  

In the darkness as the warmup started field settled in and, like water, everyone found their own level. The bookies were pleased to see "The Texan"(9:2) having no problems with his calf - there were some worries on the tote the evening before but the odds reflected a short sharp run through the *rough* back streets of Little Manly. His running mate for the morning was claiming short odds with a couple of consistent weeks with Dry July - Nick'O'(6:1) was coming into form at the right time. His lead up to the Derby couldn't have been better. 

The show pony of the group, "Softee", continues to be a mystery for the bookies and the various totes in the pen were offering everything from 3:1 through to 101:2 - he will clearly present the punters with a dilemma for the morning. "Big Bird" was back from a spell in the top paddock and rumours had him running well at closed track sessions. In the darkness on warm up he was heard to be blowing hard on the inclines and this was reflected in the odds (33:1). "Faz"(29:2) was consistent as ever and this was reflected in his workman-like odds. "Big-O"(9:1) was moving well early and his known form in the wet made him a better choice early. "Junior"(17:2) was up and about but he had disappointed the punters early in the carnival and this was reflected in the odds. "Teddy"(14:1) was as reliable as ever but there were concerns over rumours around gout and undeclared medications - the stewards will no doubt look at his samples closely if he features in the race. 

With the totes spinning like a cartoon tasmanian devil as the money followed colours, names, late mail and superstition the group settled into the final downhill to the park. On first inspection there were concerns the Derby might be cancelled due to the state of the track. The bookies were incredulous - they weren't handing any money back!! The Stewards quickly addressed the situation and decided to adjust location of the start stalls. With the move of the stalls the final post was considered in detail several times. Needless to say the Head Steward - the **Wizard of Odds** - was consulted and apparently everything was regulation (20.5 or 22 or 24 or 27.45m - we're still not sure...). At one point several of the runners were seen to influence the officials. If only there was a way to actually measure the distance in this modern era..

With the track set and the field assembled betting was closed. The take on the Texan Derby was unprecedented - it represented the classic Australiana idea of betting on two roaches running up a wall (To be honest there isn't much difference between these two races..). 

The DJ was cued, the speaker was turned up and they were off. The field settled into the first few turns without incident. It was noted by all that "Softee" was breaking early on the starts. Several of the stewards were seen with binos up and recording each of the starts. No doubt he won't survive a protest if it comes to it over the last level or two...

Down the back straight, levels 3-7, there was drama. The lightest of sprinkles started to fall and the bookies all got real nervous. The solid odds they offered the New Zealand mudder ("Big-O") could well have bankrupted a few of them. In the darkness as the rain fell there were claims of crowding on the turns! "Nick 'O'" was heard to give it to "Teddy" about holding his line. The stewards were on the spot and a flag was raised but the head steward was on the radio quick smart: 

> *If Teddy crowds him again on the rail in the turn you will no doubt see an elbow or two from Nick 'O' that has the potential to spill over into the field - ready the ambulance fellas this could blow up at any time. The odds are short and these two have history. This Derby is a powder keg of a race and we expect these two to be in the thick of it come the final straight* 

Teddy held his line for the remainder of the race, at least the stewards never reported anything...

Then it happened - The flashy confused odds "Softee" just went missing. The callers claimed it was like he was beamed up or something - someone call the Russian Space Agency! One turn the flesh coloured strip was breaking early and the next they couldn't spot it in the field. The stewards considered sending the ambulance of in a search but there was no point, he was gooooone! The stewards will keep an eye on him from here on in (if he is ever seen again) with claims of throwing races to get better odds when he comes back to town. He may not get another group one start for some time after an effort like that. 

As the field turned for home (level 8 - ...) the punters rose to their feet and started to cheer the field home. The blowing hard "Big Bird" faded to the back and failed to feature again - the feed in the top paddock was a little too thick in the North. The workman-like "Faz" was reliable in the field pressing his claims for another big race start in the near future but the pace was too hot for him. "Junior" wasn't far behind with Teddy hot on his heels. The critics claimed he was holding back and loading the odds for future events. The Kiwi representation pressed for advantage threatening to upset the field of stayers - alas he too succumbed to the pace but not before putting in a double digits effort. It was now "Nicko'O'" and the "The Texan" that remained as the riders pulled the whips out and really started to drive the field on. "The Texan" ultimately prevailed in a new PB. The Wizard of Odds on the tote again correctly placed the field about where they would land. This will surely be a moment to remember for the journeyman - once in a lifetime maybe. 

In the warm down paddock there was some game about touching and untouching (See announcement below) in the *breaking pen*. Needless to say the improvised nature of the warm down almost claimed a fetlock or two in the dark, wet conditions. The group then set sail for Shelly. The hills ground the group to a steady trot and it was clear those that had put in on the Derby. As the group pulled in beside the most expensive public bathrooms on earth - the recently renovated Shelly Beach Sh&t@# - it was apparent there was time for some quick speed work...Someone was overheard saying "god no - just let it end mate..."

From sea level up to the heights of the car park the field was off. The Derby winner was convincing in the first rep with "Softee" reappearing from the bushes with a baguette and a French accent(?). Moulder and Skully have been called to investigate this peculiar occurrence in what can only be described as the most baffling of *X-Files* ever. The second rep of speed work saw a dark horse emerge from the field as "Junior" took off like he'd been struck by lightning. He kept the field at bay after a few gallant chase efforts. There were claims of *fastest ever* but with no official time it will be little more than bar chat for the weekend ahead. There are rumours he was admitted to Royal North Shore later that day but we are still trying to confirm.  

Coffee and Banana Bread was ultimately the winner with the Derby winner thanking his sponsors in the clubhouse afterwards. No doubt this will add value to his endorsements in the weeks ahead - keep your eyes out for some sponsorship pics...

Commitment - Fitness - Mateship 

### Community Announcement - "Man Touch"

We are a group of like-minded, fit(ish), middle-aged men who meet Tuesday mornings in secluded dark area's and take turns running around touching each other. We're always looking to meet new members. Contact Big Bird or Big O if you're curious. 

